now unfortunately since we're running
behind we're not going to have time to
listen to Dennis Prager no just tease it
just teasing there's one person clapping
and said it's Prager no anyway there's
so much to say about him we're very very
blessed to have him um he is someone who
I think is one of the greatest statesmen
of our day without question he is a
best-selling author columnist national
syndicated radio show host based in Los
Angeles his radio show is heard by over
2 million listeners on 150 stations
across the country let's give a big hand
to Dennis Prager
thank you
thank you all thank you thank you thank
you I can't tell you how intimidating it
is to get a standing ovation before I
speak
no I'm being totally candid with you
I would prefer almost no reaction then I
could pleasantly surprise you now I can
only disappoint you so I that's what I
well I
but I'm very touched by by what Brad had
to say and everything you're doing and
my dear friend pastor Jack Hibbs is here
and a lot of distinguished all of you
were distinguished and I don't this is
not one of those self-esteem lines
you're all special but I know look the
very fact that you know what to support
you know I spend most of my fundraising
time for Prager University
but I I was so thrilled that as a result
of what I said to folks that I spoke to
earlier prior to your silent auction
about for the first time in my life of
speaking 40 years I was I asked for a
security going to Colorado State
University this coming Tuesday it's
coming Monday that's that's how bad it's
gotten and anyway I already see some
positive coming out of it and that
you'll have a new office in Fort Collins
so I
I was very pleased about that by the way
it was mentioned earlier about parents
who have their kids taken away because
sometimes of course appropriately but
very often not and I report this on my
radio show parents who let their kids
walk alone get give that they get
visited by Child Protective Services
it's it's beyond belief
um my parents would have lost me so
early when I was seven
they let me fly to my aunt in Miami from
New York and fly back and really what
would surely have gotten them arrested
was they came late to the airport to
pick me up
the Steyr seven-year-old son comes back
from Miami and they showed up late and
I'm so happy because the story is part
of the Prager family law right now why
did they find me doing tipping the
porter at 7:00 that is my favorite
childhood story I just had to share that
with you and now from light to dark if I
may for a moment eleven Jews were
murdered today in Pittsburgh at
synagogue I go to synagogue virtually
every Shabbat every Saturday so
obviously it hits home and it's in a
special way so I I feel injured as a Jew
but equally truly equally as an American
because it's it's a it's a stain that
this country doesn't deserve it'sit's
that I tell people all the time I was
raised to believe that I was the
luckiest Jew in Jewish history for being
an American Jew I still of course feel
that today did not change that in any
way written the book on anti-semitism I
told you was history at Brooklyn College
and a fought anti-semitism my whole life
Israel sent me into the Soviet Union
because of my knowledge of Russian and
Hebrew so I have a pretty good record on
this subject America is a blessing to
Jews as it is to blacks to Hispanics to
women and to everybody else who has
complaints about this country
if you complain about the United States
there was something wrong with you not
the United States it is as simple as
that
[Applause]
the inability to appreciate what is
beautiful is one of the ugliest traits
in the human pantheon of ugly traits
it's called ingratitude and it is
cultivated in the United States today
it's an art form ingratitude has become
an art form but I want to say one more
thing about the shooting the mass
killing of the Jews in Pittsburgh this I
say not as a Jew not as an American just
as an observer of history Jew hatred
slash anti-semitism destroys societies a
society cannot survive anti-semitism
there is
even if you don't give a damn about Jews
you have every reason in the world to
fight anti-semites it is it is a form of
societal suicide Germany committed
suicide the number of Germans
slaughtered raped tortured and the
country divided for for 40 years and I
don't I really don't know if Germany
will survive it seems to be involved in
a suicidal pact to not give birth and to
bring in people who don't share Western
values Germany may really not survive
the the great answer that evangelicals
who support Israel give when asked if
you and I tell this to Jews all the time
I said if you wake up an evangelical at
3:30 in the morning and say why do you
support Israel and the Jews they'll tell
you because God said to Abraham I will
bless those who bless you and curse
those who curse you and I wrote a piece
you should you should read it as I wrote
it not as a believer just as an observer
of history how this is actually accurate
God does bless those societies that
bless the Jews and curse those societies
that don't there is no exception to that
rule
the United States has blessed Jews more
than any other Society of any of any
Jewish of any serious Jewish population
and it has been the most blessed society
in in history right now the the most
benign part of the world is the Arab
world and it is totally related to the
fact that it curses the Jews and I and I
would tell if I was speaking to an all
Arab audience you want to turn the Arab
world around stop hating Israel simple
as that you're preoccupied instead
you're preoccupied with hatred if you
weren't you could actually is tremendous
resources in the Arab world but it's
completely there's completely stymied by
their preoccupation with the destruction
of a Jewish state the size of New Jersey
the Arab world stretches from the
Atlantic Ocean to the Persian Gulf but a
can't tolerate a Jewish state the size
of El Salvador it's it's quite
remarkable
anyway what really the message has to be
in the United States the the if you if
anyone who knows of such a human being
who harbors such hatred of Jews you're
destroying our country man and we're not
going to let you do that even it has it
is literally secondarily to do with Jews
it is there is there's a it's a death
wish it's a death spiral anti-semitism
so this is the message that I that I
would want to convey and obviously will
so I would like to speak to you tonight
you're the you're the easiest audience I
could talk to I'm on not you are I admit
it and I want to tell you why you're
you're not only conservative you're also
God centered your Bible centered I speak
to a lot of conservative audiences and
they're and they're secular and I bless
them they're they're our allies we need
them terribly
I write a column every week National
Review is one of the places it appears
and I wrote a couple of months ago a few
months ago sort of an open letter to
secular concern
many of whom were terrific will make
Prager University videos I have on my
show I read their books but they don't
understand that the American Trinity and
I use that word advisedly the American
Trinity and and you you can see it's
just released last week and we released
one every week but I do only 10% of the
videos a preview but I did this one the
American Trinity you want to explain
what America is in a nutshell
you just take out a coin and show it to
a young person or an old person a
pluribus unum Liberty and God We Trust
that's it
no other country in the world has those
three that's not the tripod upon which
any other country rests it is the United
States and it will not survive without
in god we trust' not because god will
punish us
but because we will have been we will
have committed suicide God God doesn't
have to do a thing for America to
self-destruct all we have to do is
forget that rights come from God it's
very basic if they come from man they
are worthless meaningless pointless
that
that isn't a matter of faith it takes no
faith to understand that an atheist can
understand if rights come from men men
take them away end of issue but if they
come from a transcendent source no one
can take them away that is so obvious
you have to go to graduate school not to
understand it that is what America is
rooted in and so the secular
conservatives with their brilliance and
their and their works and everything I'm
telling you you that's why it's easy to
talk to you you understand both the
conservatism and you want miss you I'll
put it this way you understand the
greatness of both the Constitution and
the Bible America means both to be
sacrosanct both are so I would like to
share with you the what I have come to
understand about the left and I always
make this point so let me make it at the
outset I draw a distinction between
liberals and leftists liberals are
usually weak they're usually wrong but
they're nice leftists are a poison in in
all societies the left has been the most
destructive force outside of Nazism in
the last a hundred years it has also
been the most powerful religion in the
world it is a secular religion it has
influenced Judaism and Christianity far
more than Judaism and Christianity have
influenced the world this is sad news
but it is nevertheless news I'll get to
the religion part in a moment but I want
to explain to you something that just
occurred to me recently and it's amazing
to me that I didn't realize this earlier
but hey there are rewards in staying
alive many rewards this is one of them
more insight so you heard actually the
first volume of my my five volume work
on the first five books of the Bible
came out last year this past year the
rationale Bible it was Exodus I'm
finishing Genesis it's it's got to be
done in five more weeks it's in a
massive massive undertaking and I came
to realize something part while nice I
realized to a certain extent but part
two is I now realize even more do you
know what God does in Genesis 1 God more
than anything else God makes order out
of chaos God spends his time separating
between light and darkness between day
and night between male and female
between life and death between God and
man there a whole host of separations
made for the world to be good the world
cannot be good with chaos 1 2 verse
chapter 1 verse 2 is and the world was
toha Volvo which not is not fully
translatable but abate essentially the
world was in chaos then God sets forth
making order then I put two and two
together and I realized that the
greatest force for disorder is the left
if you want to understand the left in a
metaphysical way it is that it is the
force of disorder the most obvious
example is male/female the denial that
there is male and female they now deny
that there is male and female first they
deny that there were differences but the
next step is obvious to deny that male
and female even exist New York Times
just had a piece last week experts say
that that biology does not determine sex
and so on there so it's it's now by the
way I want to salute you a brand I want
to salute you that was a very sensitive
interview with that woman
who was a band I by the way I have no
issue somebody that person looks like a
woman acts like a woman dresses like a
woman there are human beings with gender
dysphoria I
we should never deny reality they exist
they are fellow human beings created in
God's image if she wants to be known as
she I will what I object to is when you
when you for example use you say you're
a she and you and you now compete with
women in women's races or women's
basketball
that is narcissism not liberation and
that just happened last week in the the
world of some cycle contest where it was
a male body won and and says I'm a woman
doesn't look like a woman doesn't sound
like a woman the body towered over the
second and third place winners and
women's groups go along with it it's
it's it's it's unbelievable anyway they
the the left is a as a force of disorder
and I realized writing the toughest
chapter in all of the Bible chapter one
I realized in writing this the second
verse is and the earth was null and void
or it was filled with disorder and chaos
God spends the next six periods days
whatever you want to call them making
order and then I realized the natural
state is dis order the left appeals to
the natural state why is the left
appealing everything it touches and I
will go down a list it ruins everything
it's it's a totally destructive tornado
but why is it appealing because it
appeals to human nature people rather be
taken care of than be free freedom is a
value not an instinct the human instinct
is to be taken care of people will trade
Liberty for being taken care of in a
nanosecond they do all over the world
college kids want to do that the hell
with Liberty take care of me provide me
with with free tuition provide me with
free insurance provide me with free
health care provide me provide
me provide me take care of me the
American radical experiment on
bible-based
Western enlightenment based values was
take care of yourself take care of your
family take care of your community and
only then if necessary the state will
[Applause]
one of the most famous statements in in
the Talmud the second most holy work in
Judaism following the the Bible is in a
melee melee if I am NOT for myself who
will be for me you must first take care
of yourself that is a moral obligation
it is not a selfish act it is a moral
obligation to take care of yourself that
is what the founders understood I take
care of me I take care of my family I
take care of my community and that's
what Americans did I was in Australia
lecturing to the Jewish community
earlier this year and I saw a bus and it
had something to do with you knows where
the statement was there should never be
profit in health care and I thought what
do you out of your mind
what graduate school did you go to to
come up with something that's stupid you
don't want people to profit from making
people healthy what would you like
people to profit from sucker no no do
you understand how stupid that is there
shouldn't be profit in health care I
want doctors to make a fortune saving
people's lives and I'm not a doctor and
I'm not a fan of doctors I don't some
acock ters in great some are and great
but it doesn't matter
I want the doctors parking lot to have
nice cars in it that's a good thing what
is wrong with you
I met Noah think about it for a moment
people who save lives should not profit
by doing so really what would you like
people to profit doing
do you understand the unclarity of it
all it's not only destructive leftism
it's just downright stupid I wish it
weren't I wish I wish that there was
there was an intellectual bay but if
there were an intellectual basis to
leftism it wouldn't they wouldn't be
leftist it's all passion it's all
emotion and do you know why you are not
on the Left if you are a bible-based
person because the Bible taught you as
it taught me don't trust the human heart
that's why that alone separates
religious from secular people we know
the heart is not trustworthy you have to
be guided by values
ideally transcendent values because the
heart leads you to terrible places the
heart makes you different from an
automaton makes you different from
artificial intelligence
god bless the heart but it can't be the
guide to behavior this is one of the i
wood right over and over and over
article after article on the difference
between a Bible based belt and child
world view and a secular one this is one
I'll give you another classic example I
went to Jewish school till I was 18 and
I mean Jewish school I mean yeshiva half
the day in Hebrew Jewish subjects and
half the day in English secular subjects
pretty good background for a religious
life and here is a huge difference
between a Christian school Jewish school
on the one hand and a secular school on
the other I learned that the biggest
problem in dennis prager 'he's life is
dennis prager
in secular school you learn the biggest
problem is America
it's sexism its racism its xenophobia
its patriarchy that's the biggest
difference so basically you learn to be
a narcissist in secular schools whereas
in religious schools you can't be a
narcissist because you know what a big
problem you are that alone is reason to
send your kids
dr. centric kids to a secular school
public or private the private are no
better than the public I mean obviously
there are exceptions there are some
wonderful public some great private and
some awful religious schools
nevertheless as a rule that is the rule
the left poisons everything at the
touches so let me go down quickly the
list so I was given a time limit so here
we go oh thank you okay
a no order of importance they have
ruined the universities steven pinker
a professor of psychology at Harvard
atheist but he's a liberal not a leftist
said the left has made the universities
a laughingstock that is entirely
accurate they are now a laughingstock
the university is it to such an extent
that I warn parents I absolutely do
safety sending your child to an American
University obviously some exceptions is
playing Russian roulette with their
values okay the number of people with
wonderful values whose kids have been
poisoned of the university is painful I
meet these parents and their heart is
broken it is as if their child became a
pagan but it's not as if they did that
is essentially what has taught at our
universities they are they are moral and
intellectual waste lands there are a few
good professors we are happy to feature
them at Prager University but as a
general rule it is it is a crisis and
all because of what the left is done the
left has done this likewise to high
schools
it doesn't start there every poll pew
and a gallup has shown that now the
majority
20 of American Millennials do not
believe in free speech for hate speech
which of course is preposterous
what do they believe in free speech for
a love speech it's it's it's a
meaningless statement I believe in free
speech but not for hate speech that's
the argument for not having me at
Colorado State on Monday oh we believe
in hates but we believe in a free speech
but Dennis Prager is hate speech which
is really remarkable
they can't by the way they can never
find anything anything so what they do
is they charge me with things that I
never said they're not even in quotes
there are no sources they just make up
stuff I'll give you one example that is
that is this is this happened so often
Huffington Post just wrote this about me
two weeks ago and and other places have
as well it's about 10-15 years ago I
write a column every week but every so
often I don't only care about politics I
write about life so I wrote a two-part
column it's titled something to the
effect if if if a something when a when
I went out when a wife loves her husband
and something something about that
anyway the gist of it is very simple
here's the gist this is more important
than the title I should memorize the
title of my own work I agree it's it's a
lacuna in my in my understanding of
things but it's it's 15 years ago give
me a break but anyway that what I do
remember well is what I wrote and this
is what I wrote this I do a male-female
hour every Wednesday an hour I've talked
to thousands of people on the radio and
God knows how many through email and so
on so here it is it's very basic and
that is if you love your husband and you
want a better marriage and he's a good
man
don't let mood be the only determinant
whether or not you will have sex with
him that's all that's it that was my
advice okay so obviously he honors your
request he honors your refusal etc but
my advice is if it's just you're not in
the mood give it a try okay so that's it
that's my advice by the way whenever I
say this only men applaud it is amazing
to me I watching I have yet to see the
woman who was applauded that idea
nevertheless okay be that as it may
by the way it is I'm known for this
because I talk about it as well on the
male-female hour on Wednesdays so it is
very adorable how many couples come over
to me even at airports let alone at
speeches I don't say just want you to
know we love your male-female hour and
the guy has a big glint in his eye and I
and I say you know sir you owe me and he
shakes my hand and he agrees with me and
so on anyway so that's what I wrote okay
that's what I wrote now here's that this
is what has been you look this up you
look up dennis prager
marital rape and you will get
unbelievable numbers of hits the left
has accused me repeatedly including a
Colorado State the Colorado State
newspaper we're gonna bring a guy who
advocates marital rape is that
astonishing is think about that they lie
with the ease with which you breathe
lying is as essential to leftism as
oxygen is to biological life it is its
essence that's why Pravda was the Soviet
newspaper it means truth but it was
filled with lies they don't even know
the difference between a lie and the
truth they accused the president of
lying the president is Abraham Lincoln
compared to the left and I know he
exaggerated and distorts and all those
things but but he's one man the left is
everything it is a movement the New York
Times wrote on a piece on me because of
my soaked the so called controversy by
conducting I I conduct orchestras as an
a vocation I'm very lucky to be able to
do that I conducted a Disney Concert
Hall last year the Santa Monica Symphony
Orchestra so it was a dramatic thing for
some conservative talk show host who's
also a musician conducts the you know
left-wing or liberal cities Orchestra
so out of the 70 players in the
orchestra seven would not play for me
because I'm conservative so the New York
Times had a feature article on the
controversy on the west coast all of a
sudden the New York Times is interested
in the Santa Monica Symphony Orchestra I
mean they didn't know what existed but I
have an eye of a national name so they
figured they could smear me which is
exactly what they did people have asked
me before that they said you ever been
covered by The Times and my answer was
always thank God No thank God no and I
was proven right it was a smear piece
they wrote among other things they were
part of the reason for by the way even
the whole thing was a lie they focused
on the fact that seven of 70 wouldn't
play for me but that means that 63 of 70
would couldn't the honest article have
been beautiful event on west coast
left-wing orchestra plays for right wing
conductor to show music transcends
politics wouldn't that have been an
honest piece
[Applause]
the whole article was a fraud it was a
fraud the president is right about fake
news it's true across the board and they
wrote among other reasons that Prager is
controversial is he said that same-sex
marriage will lead to incest but I never
said that I never said that in my life
all I said was when I analyzed the judge
who overturned proposition 8 in
California the judge said that any two
week we cannot deny any two people the
right to marry so I said so I wrote an
article I said but in that regard then
we could not deny a brother and a sister
the right to marry that doesn't mean
that same-sex marriage will lead to
incest all I did was give a a logic
argument on the flawed reasoning of the
judge so they destroy I wrote them a
letter and it was no it was no use
and now so what happened NPR PBS the LA
Times all repeated and this is their
genius this is how the left works Prager
says that same-sex marriage will lead to
incest now it's in quotes but the quotes
are from the New York Times not me
that's how they work isn't that
phenomenal so The Times lied they base
their lies on the New York Times piece
the New York Times never had quotes it
didn't even say I said it they're smart
they said Prager suggested what does
that mean have you ever suggested in
your life no you either say or you don't
say you've never suggested in your life
did you ever use the verb you know I was
with Jerry today and he suggested that
what he suggested what does that mean I
mean he suggested that we eat Chinese
food that I get but you don't suggest
you either say or you don't say this is
what is happening at the universities by
the way Adam Carolla and I are making a
movie that's coming out next year no
safe spaces and I it is about
[Applause]
it is about what is happening on the
universities and Adam Carolla
he is just something very special he is
he claims to be an atheist though I
think I'm having a slight effect on him
I think I'll tell you this though but he
it's okay
he has more moral clarity than half the
religious people I know so you know I'll
take him and his atheism over a lot of
people who claim to believe in God and
who don't know left from right and and
right from wrong but he really
understands this and he understands by
the way that America will collapse
without religion he's an atheist who
appreciates the need and that's that's
more important than anything else to
appreciate the need for God even whether
or not you personally believe in God
anyway so I just wanted you to know
about about the film next the arts they
have ruined the left has ruined the arts
I'm involved in music specifically
obviously so I what I won't talk to you
about music I'll talk to you about the
graphic arts you don't know but you
would know if you if you read my column
and or or my book on on the left and an
America the the that's really my titles
of my own works are still the best hope
about American values Islamic values and
leftist values how much modern art
contemporary art is based on human feces
urine menstrual matter etc you have no
idea you probably know about piss Christ
where the artist Conan caught artists
put a crucifix in a jar of his urine to
make some really powerful statement by
the way places that showed that were
given grants from the National Endowment
for the Humanities I mean the country
had supported this by the way to show
you one of these one of the things about
the left is they're gutless would he
ever put Mohammed in a jar of urine it's
a rhetorical question it they did
it needs no response okay he knows he
could put Christ in a in a jar of urine
because you Christians won't touch him
you'll probably fight for his right to
do it and he doesn't recognize that and
if anybody says well maybe that shows
this maybe possibly don't potentially
theoretically a difference between the
values of the Muslim world on the
judeo-christian world you're you're an
Islamophobe oh maybe it's true I mean is
that possible maybe there really are
different values you die if you do piss
Muhammad and you live if you do piss
Christ is that not a statement of
something that differentiates those
worlds but that's what they love I
reported you have no you truly have no
idea of the well you have this is the
argument finally in Orange County to say
this the Orange County Museum of Art has
a twenty eight deaf foot sculpture of a
dog in the front peeing on the museum
properly but that's a separate issue it
was a very revealing thing for them to
do peeing on their own Museum but that
that's what it's doing this is
considered art don't you want to do you
understand that the forces of chaos
that's what it is you that's the only
way to understand the left it is the
forces of disorder they loathe the West
because the West embodies order an idea
of civility number three sports can't go
to a football game in the longer without
watching people denigrate the American
flag
I mean it's mind-boggling it's just
mind-boggling guy is now Colin
Kaepernick is now a Nike spokesperson
that millions of dollars a year the guy
wore socks at an NFL game depicting
polices pigs you could see the picture
on the internet and he's Nikes sports
spokesperson so that's what they have
done you know what it is this is the
irony there really aren't any more safe
spaces for Americans we used to be able
to do a lot of things without politics
intervening we could rest I could root
next to a liberal
for my home team but not anymore it's
just like and that brings me to
entertainment late night television has
been poisoned it is like it's like
watching a leftist kumbaya that's all it
is it's astonishing remember Johnny
Carson some of you might remember the
icon of American late-night TV do you
know I I admit it I did not know Johnny
Carson's politics ever he never hinted
at it if he was conservative I wouldn't
have been surprised if he was liberal I
wouldn't have been surprised his he
believed his job was to make Americans
go to bed at night with a little laugh
some laughter some smiles good night
from from the The Tonight Show that's
what he believed there's no more to the
left doesn't believe in that make
Americans smile that's a that's a
right-wing value make Americans angry
that's a left-wing value so everything
everything has been touched religion
everyone asks me not everyone everyone
that slightly exaggerated there were
times I'm not asked this question just
just yesterday coming from Minneapolis
the flight attendant did not ask me this
question so I really can't say everyone
I will say this very often I am asked by
non-jews why are so many Jews on the
left totally legit question given among
other things at the left hates Israel
I'd say you would think the Jews
wouldn't want to commit suicide you
would think but they went to college too
many Jews went to college that is a
serious problem
anyway so but but you see what what the
what the question are usually Christian
is it's not realizing is the same poison
in Judaism poison Christianity look at
Catholicism and look at the mainstream
Protestantism you what happened to the
the Presbyterian Church USA to the
Episcopal Church to the Methodist Church
what are you kidding what has happened
to the Pope the Pope's are leftist the
the the Pope's values are not Catholic
his theology may be Catholic but his
values are leftist I could give you
example after example but that I truly
don't have the time to do but I've
written about it just Google me and Pope
Francis and you will see what I wrote
about it on a document my point this is
this is it's it's poisoned religion it
what remember that's the single you have
to know what is a chaotic force and it
poisons whatever it touches liberty it
doesn't have value for liberty free
speech religious liberty campuses you
know I told you about young people who
don't believe in free speech they
believe only free speech if it's not
hate speech but that is a meaningless
statement male-female this is the one
that really this disturbs me you you
heard that woman on one of the videos
about her what was it her daughter in
class you know am I gonna be a boy oh
this is what they do to them do you know
that from North Carolina going west in
the country vast numbers of teachers
have been told do not refer to your kid
to your students and we're talking first
graders as boys and girls that's right
look it up I document everything I say
truth is sacrosanct do not call them
boys and girls just call them students
you do not want to impose a gender
identity on first graders this is a form
of child abuse and I use the term
literally
[Applause]
the family 40% just came out last week
40% of American children are born a visa
are born to mothers who were not married
40 percent in 1960 it was 10 percent 40
percent and of course rising that's
chaos folks that's the forces of
disorder remember the TV character and
the then vice president who said you
know she Murphy Brown remember she gave
birth to a child and she wasn't married
and the vice president said you know
maybe this is not a good thing
the man was lampooned as a bigot who are
you to judge like the left doesn't judge
but they don't like our judgments that's
that's that's correct
race it is astonishing do you know I
walk around I mean I I I traveled the
country last week I was in five
different cities this week I'll be in
three different cities and I just I
watched something very carefully
interactions between blacks and whites i
watch it like a hawk and i think i'm a
fairly good observer of people and
conduct the naturalness of black-white
relations in America is virtually unique
in the history of multiracial countries
I state categorically this is the least
racist multiracial country in human
history it is an astonishing achievement
[Applause]
you know I wrote I wrote a piece just to
three weeks ago I wrote a piece how I
first realized the America was
exceptional this was the story I told in
1976 I moved to a California and I
immediately I moved to Simi Valley
California which was then nothing I mean
there were two restaurants in the entire
city a pizza place and a deli and and
that was it so it was nothing and what I
did was I was I was brought out to be
the director at a very young age 25 to
be the director of a Jewish very the
largest Jewish retreat center in the
country which located on 3,200 acres in
Simi Valley so the thing I did living in
Simi Valley for three years the first
thing I did was during the Rotary Club I
was the only Jew in the semi valley
Rotary Club and what I wrote about was
the the beauty of the reaction to me the
reaction to my being the only Jew in the
semi Valley Rotary Club in 1976 was so
what now I know Jewish history very well
I've written books on it I've taught it
a collar on the college level nowhere in
the world you don't know this most Jews
don't know this no where in the world
was that ever true and not in Europe in
France if you were the only Jew in the
Rotary Club I'm not saying they would be
anti-semitic but they would all know you
as Liz reef the Jew that's how you would
be known I would be danila zuif I would
be Denis the Jew wouldn't be necessarily
bad it's just I'm different it's if you
are different in America if you're a Jew
or you're a Turk or you're Hispanic it
doesn't matter that's the point
there is no other society on earth of
which that is true
our answer the conservative the American
answer to your black is so what that's
the best answer in the world you're
white so what that doesn't matter does
God give a damn what your color is
why should I
[Applause]
hi real I'm sorry don't say damn in a
Christian
I forgot does God give a darn okay there
we go I usually have notes to myself
remember it's a Christian audience I am
the only non Christian especially Jew
who can rib Christians endlessly because
I know you so well and I live amongst
you I let me give you one example and
then I'm almost done but this this is my
favorite the lousy way you raise money
[Laughter]
believe me Jews know how to raise me
okay let me make that clear at the
outset we have a lot to learn from you
and you have a lot to learn from us this
so this I became aware of this I don't
know 2530 years ago when I first one of
the first speech I gave it a church and
they had a collection for the church the
pastor gets up they pass around the box
the Hat whatever whatever it was and the
pastor says want you now we need we need
money here at the church we need some
funds to obviously continue our
important work so I want you to pray on
it and whatever the Holy Spirit moves
you to do that's what you should do and
my first reaction was is he kidding is
this how they really do it holy what if
the Holy Spirit moves you to get five
dollars how's that gonna help the church
Jews don't depend on the Holy Spirit to
give I gotta tell you I'm just telling
you right now this is how Jews do it I
saw this with mine eyes and mine years I
was the I was the scholar residence at a
weekend retreat in Utah for the biggest
donors Jewish donors in the country to
the United Jewish appeal they had to
have given $100,000 a year to qualify
for the weekend
this is what I saw because I was allowed
to stay in the room after my speech and
guy gets up the the leading fundraiser
and he goes okay here let's see
Bernstein please stand
[Applause]
Bernstein we have your tax return for
last year you had a really good year
Mike okay so my question to my Christian
friends is which is more effective
Mike's tax return or the holy spirit
just asking I got a speech you really
should get it it is the bucks in many
ways my favorite speech what Jews and
Christians can learn from each other and
it's because I am really in a rare
position I know both communities so well
and I'm sort of a member of both and it
is really a very it's a wonderful
blessing in my life but I've learned a
lot let's put it that way like why did
yous complain more than Christians I
have theories on that too but that's in
the speech okay back to the serious I'm
practically done about what everything
that the left is touched they have
ruined the Boy Scouts it is it is that's
a perfect example so here's a perfect
example the left only destroys they
build nothing except power that's all
they built power centers for themselves
from Brussels to Washington that's what
they do but they they never replace is
there a left-wing Boy Scouts of course
not they don't have anything to bold
boys into men the very notion of molding
boys into men is sexist to them is
almost misogynistic we don't want to
make boys into men we want to make them
into feminized men who are no different
from females that's the left agenda and
let's move in the meantime masculine
eyes women and then nobody's different
and that's that's the that's the
disordered dream of the left the Boy
Scouts now is though no longer the Boy
Scouts they're not even called the Boy
Scouts because they've had to accept
girls it's just what boys need right no
place to affirm their their masculine
identity and then the assault on truth
and justice believe women you have
be kidding believe women I thought the
purposes believe evidence believe what
is true
it's a stupidest believe men if somebody
were what if somebody carrots on believe
men we would consider the person a fool
you don't believe man and you don't
believe women you believe evidence end
of issue because we we search for truth
there's no search for the truth on the
left the truth is annoying this this is
a this is a classic example you know
many young people now think that believe
women do you know I was to I was taught
that's a while ago I was taught in in
graduate school that a black cannot be a
racist that got woman can't lie a black
cannot be here no you don't understand
pity people think if you don't know what
I'm saying to be true you may think I'm
overstating so you have to look it up
look up kind of black appear racist
simply google it and the answer is no a
black can even Farrakhan cannot be a
racist a black only because only those
in the powerful race can be racist so if
a black shoots whites because he hates
whites he's not a racist
he's just the victim acting out his
anger so so to women can't lie this in
other words truth doesn't exist race
gender and class exists but not truth
and falsehood and finally happiness they
have made people unhappy there are many
reasons why the left by the way delay
there was just the latest study that
came out is about how women have been
progressively unhappy or unhappy or each
generation since the 1970s exactly when
feminism unleashed its poison and they
the read you know I do an hour each week
is the most popular hour of my show the
happiness hour I've written a book on
happiness it's a and I and I claim every
time to happy make the world better the
unhappy make it worse we're morally
obligated to act happy
and if we don't feel it happiness is a
moral virtue not an emotional state I
say that every single week America is a
better country because in its
Declaration of Independence it says life
liberty and the pursuit of happiness
they knew what they were talking about
no other country has has those three in
its Declaration of Independence the left
hates happiness and I'll tell you why
happy women happy blacks happy Hispanics
vote Republican
that is why they have a vested interest
in miserable Americans if a black says
you know I'm very happy I'm really glad
to be an American and it's pretty much a
blessing to be here there is a black who
wrote that Keith Keith rich rich
tonight's my night have too many names
in my brain
Keith richlum I think of it he's a but
it's easy you're out it's out of America
and it's a major book he's a Washington
Post journalist he wrote this many years
ago he was stationed in Africa as the
Africa East Africa bureau chief for The
Washington Post then he wrote a book
saying listen slavery was an evil and it
was horrible I mean that's a given
everybody knows that but I have to say I
am lucky that my ancestors came here as
slaves so that I could grow up in
America and not Africa which is
completely accurate
that's why do you know that more
Africans have come to the United States
as immigrants that came on slave ships
nobody knows that it was reported in the
New York Times in the 1980s this is
already true for for 40 years more
Africans have come to America as legal
immigrants wanting to come here than
cane on those hell ships called slave
ships why why would they want to come to
a racist country they stupid I've been
to 20 African countries I love Africa I
know why they came they came because
they want a better life that's why and
they do very well by the way African
immigrants do do spectacularly well in
the United States this so a black who
says yes I am really happy to be a black
in America will vote Republican the more
angry you are at whites the more likely
you are to be on the left and vote
Democrat they know that you're a
Hispanic I mean that's the most amazing
the caravan is coming to the United
States fleeing countries and holding the
flag of the country they're fleeing as a
guy I had on my show John's me rock a
Catholic writer he he put it he said
it's like what did the Jews fleeing Nazi
Germany carry a swastika flag
such a is such a great point it's all
upside down everybody it's all upside
down they've even ruined happiness so
when you know that it gives you the
intellectual ammunition to fight this
organization is a fighting organization
you help it you're the same as the
fighter god bless you and god bless it
thank you very much
thank you everybody
[Applause]
that was awesome